gh-139707: Add docs for optional modules (#140171)
python/cpython: Doc/using/configure.rst

* Support for threads.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2015 or later is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.6
   Selected C99 features, like ``<stdint.h>`` and ``static inline`` functions,
   are now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.7
   Thread support is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11
   C11 compiler, IEEE 754 and NaN support are now required.
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2017 or later is required.

See also :pep:`7` "Style Guide for C Code" and :pep:`11` "CPython platform
support".

.. _optional-module-requirements:

Requirements for optional modules
---------------------------------

To build :term:`optional modules <optional module>` of the standard library,
you will need several third-party libraries installed for development
(for example, header files must be available).

> Missing requirements are generally given in ``configure`` output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missing requirements are generally given in the ``configure`` output.
```

Author: The original sounds better to me here -- I see `configure` spewing a mass of lines, rather than a report ;)

Reviewer 2: I think "generally given" is a bit unclear here. Perhaps
```suggestion
Missing requirements are reported in the ``configure`` output.
```

Also `the` is correct here I believe because there's only one set of output, even if the output is made up of a mass of lines. (If configure output to multiple files or something then we'd drop `the`)

> Missing optional modules are listed near the end of ``make`` output,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missing optional modules are listed near the end of the ``make`` output,
```

standard library modules are available.

Dependencies to build optional modules are:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: left

   * - Dependency
     - Minimum version
     - Python module
   * - `libbz2 <https://sourceware.org/bzip2/>`_
     -
     - :mod:`bz2`
   * - `libffi <https://sourceware.org/libffi/>`_
     - 3.3.0 recommended
     - :mod:`ctypes`
   * - `liblzma <https://tukaani.org/xz/>`_
     -
     - :mod:`lzma`
   * - `libmpdec <https://www.bytereef.org/mpdecimal/doc/libmpdec/>`_
     - 2.5.0
     - :mod:`decimal` [1]_
   * - `libreadline <https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html>`_ or
       `libedit <https://www.thrysoee.dk/editline/>`_ [2]_
     -
     - :mod:`readline`
   * - `libuuid <https://linux.die.net/man/3/libuuid>`_
     -
     - ``_uuid`` [3]_
   * - `ncurses <https://gnu.org/software/ncurses/ncurses.html>`_ [4]_
     -
     - :mod:`curses`
   * - `OpenSSL <https://openssl-library.org/>`_
     - | 3.0.18 recommended
       | (1.1.1 minimum)
     - :mod:`ssl`, :mod:`hashlib` [5]_
   * - `SQLite <https://sqlite.org/>`_
     - 3.15.2
     - :mod:`sqlite3`
   * - `Tcl/Tk <https://www.tcl-lang.org/>`_
     - 8.5.12

>      - :mod:`tkinter`, :ref:`IDLE <idle>`, :mod:`turtle`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - :mod:`tkinter`, :mod:`IDLE <idlelib>`, :mod:`turtle`
```

Author: The docs downplay `idlelib`; IDLE is more important.
It doesn't match the column title, but I think this exception doesn't need an explanation.

* Support for threads.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2015 or later is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.6
   Selected C99 features, like ``<stdint.h>`` and ``static inline`` functions,
   are now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.7
   Thread support is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11
   C11 compiler, IEEE 754 and NaN support are now required.
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2017 or later is required.

See also :pep:`7` "Style Guide for C Code" and :pep:`11` "CPython platform
support".

.. _optional-module-requirements:

Requirements for Optional Modules

> ---------------------------------

Reviewer 3: Use sentence case for headers:

https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#capitalization

```suggestion
Requirements for optional modules
---------------------------------
```

   * - `libbz2 <https://sourceware.org/bzip2/>`_
     -
     - :mod:`bz2`
   * - `libffi <https://sourceware.org/libffi/>`_
     - 3.3.0 recommended
     - :mod:`ctypes`
   * - `liblzma <https://tukaani.org/xz/>`_
     -
     - :mod:`lzma`
   * - `libmpdec <https://www.bytereef.org/mpdecimal/doc/libmpdec/>`_
     - 2.5.0
     - :mod:`decimal` [1]_
   * - `libreadline <https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html>`_ or
       `libedit <https://www.thrysoee.dk/editline/>`_ [2]_
     -
     - :mod:`readline`
   * - `libuuid <https://linux.die.net/man/3/libuuid>`_
     -
     - ``_uuid`` [3]_
   * - `ncurses <https://gnu.org/software/ncurses/ncurses.html>`_ [4]_
     -
     - :mod:`curses`
   * - `OpenSSL <https://openssl-library.org/>`_
     - | 3.0.18 recommended
       | (1.1.1 minimum)
     - :mod:`ssl`, :mod:`hashlib` [5]_
   * - `SQLite <https://sqlite.org/>`_
     - 3.15.2
     - :mod:`sqlite3`
   * - `Tcl/Tk <https://www.tcl-lang.org/>`_
     - 8.5.12
     - :mod:`tkinter`
   * - `zlib <https://www.zlib.net>`_
     - 1.2.2.1
     - :mod:`zlib`, :mod:`gzip`, :mod:`ensurepip`
   * - `zstd <https://facebook.github.io/zstd/>`_
     - 1.4.5
     - :mod:`compression.zstd`

> .. [1] If *libmpdec* is not available, CPython will use a bundled copy.

Reviewer 4: That changed in Python 3.15: https://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/3.15.html#build-changes

   :mod:`readline` module.
.. [3] The :mod:`uuid` module uses ``_uuid`` to generate "safe" UUIDs.
   See the module documentation for details.
.. [4] The :mod:`curses` module requires the ``libncurses`` or ``libncursesw``
   library.
   The :mod:`curses.panel` module additionally requires the ``libpanel`` or
   ``libpanelw`` library.
.. [5] If OpenSSL is not available, the :mod:`hashlib` module will use
   bundled implementations of several hash functions.
   See :option:`--with-builtin-hashlib-hashes` for *forcing* usage of OpenSSL.

.. seealso::

   * The `devguide <https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/setup-building/#install-dependencies>`_
     includes a full list of dependencies required to build all modules and
     instructions on how to install them on common platforms.
   * :option:`--with-system-expat` allows building with an external
     `libexpat <https://libexpat.github.io/>`_ library.
   * :ref:`configure-options-for-dependencies`

.. versionchanged:: 3.1
   Tcl/Tk version 8.3.1 is now required for :mod:`tkinter`.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   Tcl/Tk version 8.4 is now required for :mod:`tkinter`.

.. versionchanged:: 3.7

>    OpenSSL 1.0.2 are now required for :mod:`hashlib`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   OpenSSL 1.0.2 is now required for :mod:`hashlib`.
```

* Support for threads.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2015 or later is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.6
   Selected C99 features, like ``<stdint.h>`` and ``static inline`` functions,
   are now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.7
   Thread support is now required.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11
   C11 compiler, IEEE 754 and NaN support are now required.
   On Windows, Visual Studio 2017 or later is required.

See also :pep:`7` "Style Guide for C Code" and :pep:`11` "CPython platform
support".

.. _optional-module-requirements:

Requirements for optional modules
---------------------------------

Some :term:`optional modules <optional module>` of the standard library
require third-party libraries installed for development
(for example, header files must be available).

Missing requirements are reported in the ``configure`` output.
Modules that are missing due to missing dependencies are listed near the end
of the ``make`` output,

> sometimes using an internal name such as ``_ctypes`` for the :mod:`ctypes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sometimes using an internal name, for example, ``_ctypes`` for the :mod:`ctypes`
```
It's not wrong, but it reads a little awkwardly IMO. Feel free to disregard.

Author: ```suggestion
sometimes using an internal name, for example, ``_ctypes`` for :mod:`ctypes`
```

.. [4] The :mod:`curses` module requires the ``libncurses`` or ``libncursesw``
   library.
   The :mod:`curses.panel` module additionally requires the ``libpanel`` or
   ``libpanelw`` library.
.. [5] If OpenSSL is not available, the :mod:`hashlib` module will use
   bundled implementations of several hash functions.
   See :option:`--with-builtin-hashlib-hashes` for *forcing* usage of OpenSSL.

Note that the table does not include all optional modules; in particular,
platform-specific modules like :mod:`winreg` are not listed here.

.. seealso::

   * The `devguide <https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/setup-building/#install-dependencies>`_
     includes a full list of dependencies required to build all modules and
     instructions on how to install them on common platforms.
   * :option:`--with-system-expat` allows building with an external
     `libexpat <https://libexpat.github.io/>`_ library.
   * :ref:`configure-options-for-dependencies`

.. versionchanged:: 3.1
   Tcl/Tk version 8.3.1 is now required for :mod:`tkinter`.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   Tcl/Tk version 8.4 is now required for :mod:`tkinter`.

.. versionchanged:: 3.7

>    OpenSSL 1.0.2 is now required for :mod:`hashlib`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   OpenSSL 1.0.2 is now required for :mod:`hashlib` and :mod:`ssl`.
```

.. versionchanged:: 3.10

>    OpenSSL 1.1.1 is now required for :mod:`hashlib`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   OpenSSL 1.1.1 is now required for :mod:`hashlib` and :mod:`ssl`.
```
